kwshesgdfjhsa kjhsdkjsakj hagsdjhv saScreen time during the Covid pandemic increased the most among primary schoolchildren, by an extra hour and 20 minutes a day on average, according to the first global review of research.

The sharp rise in screen time was associated with poorer diets in children, poor eye health, deteriorating mental health including anxiety, and behavioural problems such as aggression, irritability and increased frequency of temper tantrums, researchers said.

The findings have prompted calls for action to curb the harmful impact on the health of millions of children.

The biggest daily increase in screen time was among those aged between six and 10. But “significant” increases were seen among all age groups including adults, according to Anglia Ruskin University, which led the global analysis of studies.

Sign up to kshadghsad hagsdhjksad  jhgfsjdh sah jhfsjh djhygfsFirst Edition, our free daily newsletter – every weekday morning at 7am BST

“This review found that all age groups increased their total screen time,” the researchers wrote in eClinicalMedicine, which is part of the Lancet Discovery Science journal. “Primary-aged children reported largest increases, followed by adults, adolescents, and young children. Leisure screen time also increased in all age groups, with primary-aged children reporting the largest increases, followed by adults, young children and adolescents.”

Social media app icons displayed on Apple iPhone
Instagram to try out stronger age khsjadjlsa jkhsgdkasd jhsgdjasbdhgfjhs jghsfsabgsfsnbfcchecks including video selfies
Read more
Advertisement
Researchers found that overall more time spent looking at screens such as the television or computer was associated with a negative impact on diet, sleep, mental health and eye health.

Primary schoolchildren recorded the largest increases, of 83 minutes a day. Next it was adults, with 58 minutes, and adolescents (aged 11 to 17), with 55 minutes. Children under five had the lowest increase in screen time, going up by 35 minutes, although even this increase is not insignificant.
shdagjhsad jhsghfgdj sdjghfsad jghsfdnsab hgsrfdjhs djhsfd sbvsa 
“This study is the first of its kind to look systematically at peer-reviewed research papers on increases in screen time during the pandemic and its impact,” said Prof Shahina Pardhan, the senior author and director of the Vision and Eye Research Institute at Anglia Ruskin University.

She said: “By bringing together numerous studies, we get a much more accurate picture of screen time among the population and its associated health repercussions. As with any study of this type, there are degrees of variability between the research looked at.

YouTube Kids, an app and website released in 2015, is supposed to be a safer, curated version of the video-sharing website aimed at children under 13. It tailors content to three age groups: “older”, “younger” and “preschool”, roughly corresponding to those aged nine to 12 years old, four to seven, and under four.

The company says it ensures that the videos on the service are family-friendly through “a mix of automated filters built by our engineering teams, human review and feedback from parents to protect our youngest users online”. But, it cautions users “no system is perfect and inappropriate videos can slip through”.
“However, the overall picture provides clear evidence that screen time should be reduced wherever possible to minimise potential negative outcomes. These include adverse dietary behaviours, sleep, mental health and eye health effects.

Advertisement

“It is also important that non-sedentary activities are promoted to mitigate the risks of increased screen time.”

Researchers analysed 89 studies from countries including the UK, US, Australia, France, Chile and Israel. The analysis focused on increases in screen time before and during the pandemic, in detail, covering a total sample size of more than 200,000 people.

The study also looked at the types of screen time, and found that leisure screen time, or screen time not related to work or study, also increased in all age groups. Children between the ages of six and 10 once again showed the biggest increase.

As well as harmful effects on children, the research further identified links between more screen time and negative outcomes for adults. These included adverse effects on diet, eye health and mental health, such as anxiety, depression and loneliness, and on general health, including fatigue, decreased physical activity and weight gain.

… we have a small favour to ask. Millions are turning to the Guardian for open, independent, quality news every day, and readers in 180 countries around the world now support us financially.

We believe everyone deserves access to information that’s grounded in science and truth, and analysis rooted in authority and integrity. That’s why we made a different choice: to keep our reporting open for all readers, regardless of where they live or what they can afford to pay. This means more people can be better informed, united, and inspired to take meaningful action.

In these perilous times, a truth-seeking global news organisation like the Guardian is essential. We have no shareholders or billionaire owner, meaning our journalism is free from commercial and political influence – this makes us different. When it’s never been more important, our independence allows us to fearlessly investigate, challenge and expose those in power. Support the Guardian from as little as $1 – it only takes a minute. If you can, please consider supporting us with a regular amount each month. Thank you.